docs/docs/quickstart.mdx, before:

---
title: Quickstart
hide_title: false
sidebar_position: 2
---

**Ready to try Apache Superset?** This quickstart guide will help you
get up and running on your local machine in **3 simple steps**. Note that
it assumes that you have [Docker](https://www.docker.com),
[Docker Compose](https://docs.docker.com/compose/), and
[Git](https://git-scm.com/) installed.

:::caution
Although we recommend using `Docker Compose` for a quick start in a sandbox-type
environment and for other development-type use cases, **we
do not recommend this setup for production**. For this purpose please
refer to our
[Installing on Kubernetes](/docs/installation/kubernetes/)
page.
:::

### 1. Get Superset

```bash
$ git clone https://github.com/apache/superset
```

### 2. Start the latest official release of Superset

```bash
# Enter the repository you just cloned
$ cd superset

# Fire up Superset using Docker Compose
$ docker compose -f docker-compose-image-tag.yml up
```

This may take a moment as Docker Compose will fetch the underlying
container images and will load up some examples. Once all containers
are downloaded and the output settles, you're ready to log in.

⚠️ If you get an error message like `validating superset\docker-compose-image-tag.yml: services.superset-worker-beat.env_file.0 must be a string`, you need to update your version of `docker-compose`.

### 3. Log into Superset

Now head over to [http://localhost:8088](http://localhost:8088) and log in with the default created account:

```bash
username: admin
password: admin
```

#### 🎉 Congratulations! Superset is now up and running on your machine! 🎉

### Wrapping Up

Once you're done with Superset, you can stop and delete just like any other container environment:

```bash
$ docker compose down
```

:::tip
You can use the same environment more than once, as Superset will persist data locally. However, make sure to properly stop all
processes by running Docker Compose `stop` command. By doing so, you can avoid data corruption and/or loss of data.
:::

## What's next?

From this point on, you can head on to:

- [Create your first Dashboard](/docs/using-superset/creating-your-first-dashboard)
- [Connect to a Database](/docs/configuration/databases)
- [Using Docker Compose](/docs/installation/docker-compose)
- [Configure Superset](/docs/configuration/configuring-superset/)
- [Installing on Kubernetes](/docs/installation/kubernetes/)

Or just explore our [Documentation](https://superset.apache.org/docs/intro)!

Commit message:

chore(docs): docker instructions use `docker compose` instead of the deprecated `docker-compose` (#30030)

docs/docs/quickstart.mdx, after:

---
title: Quickstart
hide_title: false
sidebar_position: 2
---

**Ready to try Apache Superset?** This quickstart guide will help you
get up and running on your local machine in **3 simple steps**. Note that
it assumes that you have [Docker](https://www.docker.com),
[Docker Compose](https://docs.docker.com/compose/), and
[Git](https://git-scm.com/) installed.

:::caution
Although we recommend using `Docker Compose` for a quick start in a sandbox-type
environment and for other development-type use cases, **we
do not recommend this setup for production**. For this purpose please
refer to our
[Installing on Kubernetes](/docs/installation/kubernetes/)
page.
:::

### 1. Get Superset

```bash
$ git clone https://github.com/apache/superset
```

### 2. Start the latest official release of Superset

```bash
# Enter the repository you just cloned
$ cd superset

# Fire up Superset using Docker Compose
$ docker compose -f docker-compose-image-tag.yml up
```

This may take a moment as Docker Compose will fetch the underlying
container images and will load up some examples. Once all containers
are downloaded and the output settles, you're ready to log in.

⚠️ If you get an error message like `validating superset\docker-compose-image-tag.yml: services.superset-worker-beat.env_file.0 must be a string`, you need to update your version of `docker-compose`.
Note that `docker-compose` is on the path to deprecation and you should now use `docker compose` instead.

### 3. Log into Superset

Now head over to [http://localhost:8088](http://localhost:8088) and log in with the default created account:

```bash
username: admin
password: admin
```

#### 🎉 Congratulations! Superset is now up and running on your machine! 🎉

### Wrapping Up

Once you're done with Superset, you can stop and delete just like any other container environment:

```bash
$ docker compose down
```

:::tip
You can use the same environment more than once, as Superset will persist data locally. However, make sure to properly stop all
processes by running Docker Compose `stop` command. By doing so, you can avoid data corruption and/or loss of data.
:::

## What's next?

From this point on, you can head on to:

- [Create your first Dashboard](/docs/using-superset/creating-your-first-dashboard)
- [Connect to a Database](/docs/configuration/databases)
- [Using Docker Compose](/docs/installation/docker-compose)
- [Configure Superset](/docs/configuration/configuring-superset/)
- [Installing on Kubernetes](/docs/installation/kubernetes/)

Or just explore our [Documentation](https://superset.apache.org/docs/intro)!
