docs/docs/installation/docker-compose.mdx, before:

---
title: Docker Compose
hide_title: true
sidebar_position: 4
version: 1
---

import useBaseUrl from "@docusaurus/useBaseUrl";

# Using Docker Compose

<img src={useBaseUrl("/img/docker-compose.webp" )} width="150" />
<br /><br />

:::caution
Since `docker compose` is primarily designed to run a set of containers on **a single host**
and can't support requirements for **high availability**, we do not support nor recommend
using our `docker- ompose` constructs to support production-type use-cases. For single host
environments, we recommend using [minikube](https://minikube.sigs.k8s.io/docs/start/) along
our [installing on k8s](https://superset.apache.org/docs/installation/running-on-kubernetes)
documentation.
:::

As mentioned in our [quickstart guide](/docs/quickstart), the fastest way to try
Superset locally is using Docker Compose on a Linux or Mac OSX
computer. Superset does not have official support for Windows. It's also the easiest
way to launch a fully functioning **development environment** quickly.

Note that there are 3 major ways we support to run `docker compose`:

1. **docker-compose.yml:** for interactive development, where we mount your local folder with the
  frontend/backend files that you can edit and experience the changes you
  make in the app in real time
1. **docker-compose-non-dev.yml** where we just build a more immutable image based on the
  local branch and get all the required images running. Changes in the local branch
  at the time you fire this up will be reflected, but changes to the code
  while `up` won't be reflected in the app
1. **docker-compose-image-tag.yml** where we fetch an image from docker-hub say for the
  `3.0.0` release for instance, and fire it up so you can try it. Here what's in
  the local branch has no effects on what's running, we just fetch and run
  pre-built images from docker-hub

More on these two approaches after setting up the requirements for either.

## Requirements

Note that this documentation assumes that you have [Docker](https://www.docker.com) and
[git](https://git-scm.com/) installed. Note also that we used to use `docker-compose` but that
is on the path to deprecation so we now use `docker compose` instead.

## 1. Clone Superset's GitHub repository

[Clone Superset's repo](https://github.com/apache/superset) in your terminal with the
following command:

```bash
git clone --depth=1  https://github.com/apache/superset.git
```

Once that command completes successfully, you should see a new `superset` folder in your
current directory.

## 2. Launch Superset Through Docker Compose

First let's assume you're familiar with `docker compose` mechanics. Here we'll refer generally
to `docker compose up` even though in some cases you may want to force a check for newer remote
images using `docker compose pull`, force a build with `docker compose build` or force a build
on latest base images using `docker compose build --pull`. In most cases though, the simple
`up` command should do just fine. Refer to docker compose docs for more information on the topic.

### Option #1 - for an interactive development environment

```bash
docker compose up
```

:::tip
When running in development mode the `superset-node`
container needs to finish building assets in order for the UI to render properly. If you would just
like to try out Superset without making any code changes follow the steps documented for
`production` or a specific version below.
:::

:::tip
By default, we mount the local superset-frontend folder here and run `npm install` as well
as `npm run dev` which triggers webpack to compile/bundle the frontend code. Depending
on your local setup, especially if you have less than 16GB of memory,  it may be very slow to
perform those operations. In this case, we recommend you set the env var
`BUILD_SUPERSET_FRONTEND_IN_DOCKER` to `false`, and to run this locally instead in a terminal.
Simply trigger `npm i && npm run dev`, this should be MUCH faster.
:::

### Option #2 - build a set of immutable images from the local branch

```bash
docker compose -f docker-compose-non-dev.yml up
```

### Option #3 - boot up an official release

```bash
export TAG=3.1.1
docker compose -f docker-compose-image-tag.yml up
```

Here various release tags, github SHA, and latest `master` can be referenced by the TAG env var.
Refer to the docker-related documentation to learn more about existing tags you can point to
from Docker Hub.

## `docker compose` tips & configuration

:::caution
All of the content belonging to a Superset instance - charts, dashboards, users, etc. - is stored in
its metadata database. In production, this database should be backed up.  The default installation
with docker compose will store that data in a PostgreSQL database contained in a Docker
[volume](https://docs.docker.com/storage/volumes/), which is not backed up.

Again, **DO NOT USE THIS FOR PRODUCTION**

:::

You should see a stream of logging output from the containers being launched on your machine. Once
this output slows, you should have a running instance of Superset on your local machine!  To avoid
the wall of text on future runs, add the `-d` option to the end of the `docker compose up` command.

### Configuring Further

The following is for users who want to configure how Superset runs in Docker Compose; otherwise, you
can skip to the next section.

You can install additional python packages and apply config overrides by following the steps
mentioned in [docker/README.md](https://github.com/apache/superset/tree/master/docker#configuration)

Note that `docker/.env` sets the default environment variables for all the docker images
used by `docker compose`, and that `docker/.env-local` can be used to override those defaults.
Also note that `docker/.env-local` is referenced in our `.gitignore`,
preventing developers from risking committing potentially sensitive configuration to the repository.

One important variable is `SUPERSET_LOAD_EXAMPLES` which determines whether the `superset_init`
container will populate example data and visualizations into the metadata database. These examples
are helpful for learning and testing out Superset but unnecessary for experienced users and
production deployments. The loading process can sometimes take a few minutes and a good amount of
CPU, so you may want to disable it on a resource-constrained device.

For more advanced or dynamic configurations that are typically managed in a `superset_config.py` file
located in your `PYTHONPATH`, note that it can be done by providing a
`docker/pythonpath_dev/superset_config_docker.py` that will be ignored by git
(preventing you to commit/push your local configuration back to the repository).
The mechanics of this are in `docker/pythonpath_dev/superset_config.py` where you can see
that the logic runs a `from superset_config_docker import *`

:::note
Users often want to connect to other databases from Superset. Currently, the easiest way to
do this is to modify the `docker-compose-non-dev.yml` file and add your database as a service that
the other services depend on (via `x-superset-depends-on`). Others have attempted to set
`network_mode: host` on the Superset services, but these generally break the installation,
because the configuration requires use of the Docker Compose DNS resolver for the service names.
If you have a good solution for this, let us know!
:::

:::note
Superset uses [Scarf Gateway](https://about.scarf.sh/scarf-gateway) to collect telemetry
data. Knowing the installation counts for different Superset versions informs the project's
decisions about patching and long-term support. Scarf purges personally identifiable information
(PII) and provides only aggregated statistics.

To opt-out of this data collection for packages downloaded through the Scarf Gateway by your docker
compose based installation, edit the `x-superset-image:` line in your `docker-compose.yml` and
`docker-compose-non-dev.yml` files, replacing `apachesuperset.docker.scarf.sh/apache/superset` with
`apache/superset` to pull the image directly from Docker Hub.

To disable the Scarf telemetry pixel, set the `SCARF_ANALYTICS` environment variable to `False` in
your terminal and/or in your `docker/.env` file.
:::

## 3. Log in to Superset

Your local Superset instance also includes a Postgres server to store your data and is already
pre-loaded with some example datasets that ship with Superset. You can access Superset now via your
web browser by visiting `http://localhost:8088`. Note that many browsers now default to `https` - if
yours is one of them, please make sure it uses `http`.

Log in with the default username and password:

```bash
username: admin
```

```bash
password: admin
```

## 4. Connecting Superset to your local database instance

When running Superset using `docker` or `docker compose` it runs in its own docker container, as if
the Superset was running in a separate machine entirely. Therefore attempts to connect to your local
database with the hostname `localhost` won't work as `localhost` refers to the docker container
Superset is running in, and not your actual host machine. Fortunately, docker provides an easy way
to access network resources in the host machine from inside a container, and we will leverage this
capability to connect to our local database instance.

Here the instructions are for connecting to postgresql (which is running on your host machine) from
Superset (which is running in its docker container). Other databases may have slightly different
configurations but gist would be same and boils down to 2 steps -

1. **(Mac users may skip this step)** Configuring the local postgresql/database instance to accept
public incoming connections. By default, postgresql only allows incoming connections from
`localhost` and under Docker, unless you use `--network=host`, `localhost` will refer to different
endpoints on the host machine and in a docker container respectively. Allowing postgresql to accept
connections from the Docker involves making one-line changes to the files `postgresql.conf` and
`pg_hba.conf`; you can find helpful links tailored to your OS / PG version on the web easily for
this task. For Docker it suffices to only whitelist IPs `172.0.0.0/8` instead of `*`, but in any
case you are _warned_ that doing this in a production database _may_ have disastrous consequences as
you are opening your database to the public internet.
1. Instead of `localhost`, try using `host.docker.internal` (Mac users, Ubuntu) or `172.18.0.1`
(Linux users) as the hostname when attempting to connect to the database. This is a Docker internal
detail -- what is happening is that, in Mac systems, Docker Desktop creates a dns entry for the
hostname `host.docker.internal` which resolves to the correct address for the host machine, whereas
in Linux this is not the case (at least by default). If neither of these 2 hostnames work then you
may want to find the exact hostname you want to use, for that you can do `ifconfig` or
`ip addr show` and look at the IP address of `docker0` interface that must have been created by
Docker for you. Alternately if you don't even see the `docker0` interface try (if needed with sudo)
`docker network inspect bridge` and see if there is an entry for `"Gateway"` and note the IP
address.

Commit message:

docs: document how docker-compose-image-tag requires -dev suffixed images (#30144)
Co-authored-by: Sam Firke <sfirke@users.noreply.github.com>

docs/docs/installation/docker-compose.mdx, after:

---
title: Docker Compose
hide_title: true
sidebar_position: 4
version: 1
---

import useBaseUrl from "@docusaurus/useBaseUrl";

# Using Docker Compose

<img src={useBaseUrl("/img/docker-compose.webp" )} width="150" />
<br /><br />

:::caution
Since `docker compose` is primarily designed to run a set of containers on **a single host**
and can't support requirements for **high availability**, we do not support nor recommend
using our `docker- ompose` constructs to support production-type use-cases. For single host
environments, we recommend using [minikube](https://minikube.sigs.k8s.io/docs/start/) along
our [installing on k8s](https://superset.apache.org/docs/installation/running-on-kubernetes)
documentation.
:::

As mentioned in our [quickstart guide](/docs/quickstart), the fastest way to try
Superset locally is using Docker Compose on a Linux or Mac OSX
computer. Superset does not have official support for Windows. It's also the easiest
way to launch a fully functioning **development environment** quickly.

Note that there are 3 major ways we support to run `docker compose`:

1. **docker-compose.yml:** for interactive development, where we mount your local folder with the
  frontend/backend files that you can edit and experience the changes you
  make in the app in real time
1. **docker-compose-non-dev.yml** where we just build a more immutable image based on the
  local branch and get all the required images running. Changes in the local branch
  at the time you fire this up will be reflected, but changes to the code
  while `up` won't be reflected in the app
1. **docker-compose-image-tag.yml** where we fetch an image from docker-hub say for the
  `3.0.0` release for instance, and fire it up so you can try it. Here what's in
  the local branch has no effects on what's running, we just fetch and run
  pre-built images from docker-hub. For `docker compose` to work along with the
  Postgres image it boots up, you'll want to point to a `-dev`-suffixed TAG, as in
  `export TAG=4.0.0-dev` or `export TAG=3.0.0-dev`, with `latest-dev` being the default.
  That's because The `dev` builds happen to package the `psycopg2-binary` required to connect
  to the Postgres database launched as part of the `docker compose` builds.
``

More on these two approaches after setting up the requirements for either.

## Requirements

Note that this documentation assumes that you have [Docker](https://www.docker.com) and
[git](https://git-scm.com/) installed. Note also that we used to use `docker-compose` but that
is on the path to deprecation so we now use `docker compose` instead.

## 1. Clone Superset's GitHub repository

[Clone Superset's repo](https://github.com/apache/superset) in your terminal with the
following command:

```bash
git clone --depth=1  https://github.com/apache/superset.git
```

Once that command completes successfully, you should see a new `superset` folder in your
current directory.

## 2. Launch Superset Through Docker Compose

First let's assume you're familiar with `docker compose` mechanics. Here we'll refer generally
to `docker compose up` even though in some cases you may want to force a check for newer remote
images using `docker compose pull`, force a build with `docker compose build` or force a build
on latest base images using `docker compose build --pull`. In most cases though, the simple
`up` command should do just fine. Refer to docker compose docs for more information on the topic.

### Option #1 - for an interactive development environment

```bash
docker compose up
```

:::tip
When running in development mode the `superset-node`
container needs to finish building assets in order for the UI to render properly. If you would just
like to try out Superset without making any code changes follow the steps documented for
`production` or a specific version below.
:::

:::tip
By default, we mount the local superset-frontend folder here and run `npm install` as well
as `npm run dev` which triggers webpack to compile/bundle the frontend code. Depending
on your local setup, especially if you have less than 16GB of memory,  it may be very slow to
perform those operations. In this case, we recommend you set the env var
`BUILD_SUPERSET_FRONTEND_IN_DOCKER` to `false`, and to run this locally instead in a terminal.
Simply trigger `npm i && npm run dev`, this should be MUCH faster.
:::

### Option #2 - build a set of immutable images from the local branch

```bash
docker compose -f docker-compose-non-dev.yml up
```

### Option #3 - boot up an official release

```bash
export TAG=3.1.1
docker compose -f docker-compose-image-tag.yml up
```

Here various release tags, github SHA, and latest `master` can be referenced by the TAG env var.
Refer to the docker-related documentation to learn more about existing tags you can point to
from Docker Hub.

## `docker compose` tips & configuration

:::caution
All of the content belonging to a Superset instance - charts, dashboards, users, etc. - is stored in
its metadata database. In production, this database should be backed up.  The default installation
with docker compose will store that data in a PostgreSQL database contained in a Docker
[volume](https://docs.docker.com/storage/volumes/), which is not backed up.

Again, **DO NOT USE THIS FOR PRODUCTION**

:::

You should see a stream of logging output from the containers being launched on your machine. Once
this output slows, you should have a running instance of Superset on your local machine!  To avoid
the wall of text on future runs, add the `-d` option to the end of the `docker compose up` command.

### Configuring Further

The following is for users who want to configure how Superset runs in Docker Compose; otherwise, you
can skip to the next section.

You can install additional python packages and apply config overrides by following the steps
mentioned in [docker/README.md](https://github.com/apache/superset/tree/master/docker#configuration)

Note that `docker/.env` sets the default environment variables for all the docker images
used by `docker compose`, and that `docker/.env-local` can be used to override those defaults.
Also note that `docker/.env-local` is referenced in our `.gitignore`,
preventing developers from risking committing potentially sensitive configuration to the repository.

One important variable is `SUPERSET_LOAD_EXAMPLES` which determines whether the `superset_init`
container will populate example data and visualizations into the metadata database. These examples
are helpful for learning and testing out Superset but unnecessary for experienced users and
production deployments. The loading process can sometimes take a few minutes and a good amount of
CPU, so you may want to disable it on a resource-constrained device.

For more advanced or dynamic configurations that are typically managed in a `superset_config.py` file
located in your `PYTHONPATH`, note that it can be done by providing a
`docker/pythonpath_dev/superset_config_docker.py` that will be ignored by git
(preventing you to commit/push your local configuration back to the repository).
The mechanics of this are in `docker/pythonpath_dev/superset_config.py` where you can see
that the logic runs a `from superset_config_docker import *`

:::note
Users often want to connect to other databases from Superset. Currently, the easiest way to
do this is to modify the `docker-compose-non-dev.yml` file and add your database as a service that
the other services depend on (via `x-superset-depends-on`). Others have attempted to set
`network_mode: host` on the Superset services, but these generally break the installation,
because the configuration requires use of the Docker Compose DNS resolver for the service names.
If you have a good solution for this, let us know!
:::

:::note
Superset uses [Scarf Gateway](https://about.scarf.sh/scarf-gateway) to collect telemetry
data. Knowing the installation counts for different Superset versions informs the project's
decisions about patching and long-term support. Scarf purges personally identifiable information
(PII) and provides only aggregated statistics.

To opt-out of this data collection for packages downloaded through the Scarf Gateway by your docker
compose based installation, edit the `x-superset-image:` line in your `docker-compose.yml` and
`docker-compose-non-dev.yml` files, replacing `apachesuperset.docker.scarf.sh/apache/superset` with
`apache/superset` to pull the image directly from Docker Hub.

To disable the Scarf telemetry pixel, set the `SCARF_ANALYTICS` environment variable to `False` in
your terminal and/or in your `docker/.env` file.
:::

## 3. Log in to Superset

Your local Superset instance also includes a Postgres server to store your data and is already
pre-loaded with some example datasets that ship with Superset. You can access Superset now via your
web browser by visiting `http://localhost:8088`. Note that many browsers now default to `https` - if
yours is one of them, please make sure it uses `http`.

Log in with the default username and password:

```bash
username: admin
```

```bash
password: admin
```

## 4. Connecting Superset to your local database instance

When running Superset using `docker` or `docker compose` it runs in its own docker container, as if
the Superset was running in a separate machine entirely. Therefore attempts to connect to your local
database with the hostname `localhost` won't work as `localhost` refers to the docker container
Superset is running in, and not your actual host machine. Fortunately, docker provides an easy way
to access network resources in the host machine from inside a container, and we will leverage this
capability to connect to our local database instance.

Here the instructions are for connecting to postgresql (which is running on your host machine) from
Superset (which is running in its docker container). Other databases may have slightly different
configurations but gist would be same and boils down to 2 steps -

1. **(Mac users may skip this step)** Configuring the local postgresql/database instance to accept
public incoming connections. By default, postgresql only allows incoming connections from
`localhost` and under Docker, unless you use `--network=host`, `localhost` will refer to different
endpoints on the host machine and in a docker container respectively. Allowing postgresql to accept
connections from the Docker involves making one-line changes to the files `postgresql.conf` and
`pg_hba.conf`; you can find helpful links tailored to your OS / PG version on the web easily for
this task. For Docker it suffices to only whitelist IPs `172.0.0.0/8` instead of `*`, but in any
case you are _warned_ that doing this in a production database _may_ have disastrous consequences as
you are opening your database to the public internet.
1. Instead of `localhost`, try using `host.docker.internal` (Mac users, Ubuntu) or `172.18.0.1`
(Linux users) as the hostname when attempting to connect to the database. This is a Docker internal
detail -- what is happening is that, in Mac systems, Docker Desktop creates a dns entry for the
hostname `host.docker.internal` which resolves to the correct address for the host machine, whereas
in Linux this is not the case (at least by default). If neither of these 2 hostnames work then you
may want to find the exact hostname you want to use, for that you can do `ifconfig` or
`ip addr show` and look at the IP address of `docker0` interface that must have been created by
Docker for you. Alternately if you don't even see the `docker0` interface try (if needed with sudo)
`docker network inspect bridge` and see if there is an entry for `"Gateway"` and note the IP
address.
