docs/docs/databases/trino.mdx, before:

---
title: Trino
hide_title: true
sidebar_position: 34
version: 1
---

## Trino

Supported trino version 352 and higher

### Connection String
The connection string format is as follows:
```
trino://{username}:{password}@{hostname}:{port}/{catalog}
```

If you are running Trino with docker on local machine, please use the following connection URL
```
trino://trino@host.docker.internal:8080
```

### Authentications
#### 1. Basic Authentication
You can provide `username`/`password` in the connection string or in the `Secure Extra` field at `Advanced / Security`
* In Connection String
    ```
    trino://{username}:{password}@{hostname}:{port}/{catalog}
    ```

* In `Secure Extra` field
    ```json
    {
        "auth_method": "basic",
        "auth_params": {
            "username": "<username>",
            "password": "<password>"
        }
    }
    ```

NOTE: if both are provided, `Secure Extra` always takes higher priority.

#### 2. Kerberos Authentication
In `Secure Extra` field, config as following example:
```json
{
    "auth_method": "kerberos",
    "auth_params": {
        "service_name": "superset",
        "config": "/path/to/krb5.config",
        ...
    }
}
```

All fields in `auth_params` are passed directly to the [`KerberosAuthentication`](https://github.com/trinodb/trino-python-client/blob/0.306.0/trino/auth.py#L40) class.

#### 3. Certificate Authentication
In `Secure Extra` field, config as following example:
```json
{
    "auth_method": "certificate",
    "auth_params": {
        "cert": "/path/to/cert.pem",
        "key": "/path/to/key.pem"
    }
}
```

All fields in `auth_params` are passed directly to the [`CertificateAuthentication`](https://github.com/trinodb/trino-python-client/blob/0.315.0/trino/auth.py#L416) class.

#### 4. JWT Authentication
Config `auth_method` and provide token in `Secure Extra` field
```json
{
    "auth_method": "jwt",
    "auth_params": {
        "token": "<your-jwt-token>"
    }
}
```

#### 5. Custom Authentication
To use custom authentication, first you need to add it into
`ALLOWED_EXTRA_AUTHENTICATIONS` allow list in Superset config file:
```python
from your.module import AuthClass
from another.extra import auth_method

ALLOWED_EXTRA_AUTHENTICATIONS: Dict[str, Dict[str, Callable[..., Any]]] = {
    "trino": {
        "custom_auth": AuthClass,
        "another_auth_method": auth_method,
    },
}
```

Then in `Secure Extra` field:
```json
{
    "auth_method": "custom_auth",
    "auth_params": {
        ...
    }
}
```

You can also use custom authentication by providing reference to your `trino.auth.Authentication` class
or factory function (which returns an `Authentication` instance) to `auth_method`.

All fields in `auth_params` are passed directly to your class/function.

**Reference**:
* [Trino-Superset-Podcast](https://trino.io/episodes/12.html)

Commit message:

docs: Update Trino Kerberos configuration (#26119)

docs/docs/databases/trino.mdx, after:

---
title: Trino
hide_title: true
sidebar_position: 34
version: 1
---

## Trino

Supported trino version 352 and higher

### Connection String
The connection string format is as follows:
```
trino://{username}:{password}@{hostname}:{port}/{catalog}
```

If you are running Trino with docker on local machine, please use the following connection URL
```
trino://trino@host.docker.internal:8080
```

### Authentications
#### 1. Basic Authentication
You can provide `username`/`password` in the connection string or in the `Secure Extra` field at `Advanced / Security`
* In Connection String
    ```
    trino://{username}:{password}@{hostname}:{port}/{catalog}
    ```

* In `Secure Extra` field
    ```json
    {
        "auth_method": "basic",
        "auth_params": {
            "username": "<username>",
            "password": "<password>"
        }
    }
    ```

NOTE: if both are provided, `Secure Extra` always takes higher priority.

#### 2. Kerberos Authentication
In `Secure Extra` field, config as following example:
```json
{
    "auth_method": "kerberos",
    "auth_params": {
        "service_name": "superset",
        "config": "/path/to/krb5.config",
        ...
    }
}
```

All fields in `auth_params` are passed directly to the [`KerberosAuthentication`](https://github.com/trinodb/trino-python-client/blob/0.306.0/trino/auth.py#L40) class.

NOTE: Kerberos authentication requires installing the [`trino-python-client`](https://github.com/trinodb/trino-python-client) locally with either the `all` or `kerberos` optional features, i.e., installing `trino[all]` or `trino[kerberos]` respectively.

#### 3. Certificate Authentication
In `Secure Extra` field, config as following example:
```json
{
    "auth_method": "certificate",
    "auth_params": {
        "cert": "/path/to/cert.pem",
        "key": "/path/to/key.pem"
    }
}
```

All fields in `auth_params` are passed directly to the [`CertificateAuthentication`](https://github.com/trinodb/trino-python-client/blob/0.315.0/trino/auth.py#L416) class.

#### 4. JWT Authentication
Config `auth_method` and provide token in `Secure Extra` field
```json
{
    "auth_method": "jwt",
    "auth_params": {
        "token": "<your-jwt-token>"
    }
}
```

#### 5. Custom Authentication
To use custom authentication, first you need to add it into
`ALLOWED_EXTRA_AUTHENTICATIONS` allow list in Superset config file:
```python
from your.module import AuthClass
from another.extra import auth_method

ALLOWED_EXTRA_AUTHENTICATIONS: Dict[str, Dict[str, Callable[..., Any]]] = {
    "trino": {
        "custom_auth": AuthClass,
        "another_auth_method": auth_method,
    },
}
```

Then in `Secure Extra` field:
```json
{
    "auth_method": "custom_auth",
    "auth_params": {
        ...
    }
}
```

You can also use custom authentication by providing reference to your `trino.auth.Authentication` class
or factory function (which returns an `Authentication` instance) to `auth_method`.

All fields in `auth_params` are passed directly to your class/function.

**Reference**:
* [Trino-Superset-Podcast](https://trino.io/episodes/12.html)
